Come all ye maidens young and fair
And you that are blooming in your prime
Always beware and keep your garden fair
Let no man steal away your thyme
For thyme it is a precious thing
And thyme brings all things to my mind
nlyme with all its flavours, along with all its joys
Thyme, brings all things to my mind
Once I and a bunch of thyme
i thought it never would decay
Then came a lusty sailor
Who chanced to pass my way
And stole my bunch of thyme away
The sailor gave to me a rose
A rose that never would decay
He gave it to me to keep me reminded
Of when he stole my thyme away
Sleep, my child, and peace attend thee
All through the night
Guardian angels God will send thee
Soft the drowsy hours are creeping
Hill and dale in slumber sleeping
I my loving vigil keeping
While the moon her watch is keeping
While the weary world is sleeping
Oer thy spirit gently stealing
Visions of delight revealing
Breathes a pure and holy feeling
Though I roam a minstrel lonely
My true harp shall praise sing only
Loves young dream, alas, is over
Yet my strains of love shall hover
Near the presence of my lover
Hark, a solemn bell is ringing
Clear through the night
Thou, my love, art heavenward winging
Home through the night
Earthly dust from off thee shaken
Soul immortal shalt thou awaken
With thy last dim journey taken
Oh please neer forget me though waves now lie oer me
I was once young and pretty and my spirit ran free
But destiny tore me from country and loved ones
And from the new land I was never to see.
A poor emigrants daughter too frightened to know
I was leaving forever the land of my soul
Amid struggle and fear my parents did pray
To place courage to leave oer the longing to stay.
They spoke of a new land far away cross the sea
And of peace and good fortune for my brothers and me
So we parted from townland with much weeping and pain
Kissed the loved ones and the friends we would neer see again.
The vessel was crowded with disquieted folk
The escape from past hardship sustaining their hope
But as the last glimpse of Ireland faded into the mist
Each one fought back tears and felt strangely alone.
The seas roared in anger, making desperate our plight
And a fever came oer me that worsened next night
Then delirium possessed me and clouded my mind
And I for a moment saw that land left behind.
I could hear in the distance my dear mothers wailing
And the prayers of three brothers that Id see no more
And I felt fathers tears as he begged for forgiveness
For seeking a new life on the still distant shore.
Over in Killarney
Many years ago,
Me Mither sang a song to me
In tones so sweet and low.
Just a simple little ditty,
In her good ould Irish way,
And ld give the world if she could sing
That song to me this day.
Too-ra-loo-ra-loo-ral, Too-ra-loo-ra-li,
Too-ra-loo-ra-loo-ral, hush now, dont you cry!
Too-ra-loo-ra-loo-ral, thats an Irish lullaby.
Oft in dreams I wander
To that cot again,
I feel her arms a-huggin me
As when she held me then.
And I hear her voice a -hummin
To me as in days of yore,
When she used to rock me fast asleep
Outside the cabin door.
And who are you, me pretty fair maid
And who are you, me honey?
She answered me quite modestly:
I am me mothers darling.
With me too-ry-ay
Fol-de-diddle-day
Di-re fol-de-diddle
Dai-rie oh.
And will you come to me mothers house,
When the sun is shining clearly
Ill open the door and Ill let you in
And divil o one would hear us.
So I went to her house in the middle of the night
When the moon was shining clearly
Shc opened the door and she let me in
And divil the one did hear us.
She took me horse by the bridle and the bit
And she led him to the stable
Saying Theres plenty of oats for a soldiers horse,
To eat it if hes able.
Then she took me by the lily-white hand
And she led me to the table
Saying: Theres plenty of wine for a soldier boy,
To drink it if youre able.
Then I got up and made the bed
And I made it nice and aisy
Then I got up and laid her down
Saying: Lassie, are you able?
And there we lay till the break of day
And divil a one did hear us
Then I arose and put on me clothes
Saying: Lassie, I must leave you.
And when will you return again
And when will we get married
When broken shells make Christmas bells
We might well get married
In 1803 we sailed out to sea
Out from the sweet town of Derry
For Australia bound if we didnt all drown
And the marks of our fetters we carried.
In the rusty iron chains we sighed for our wains
As our good wives we left in sorrow.
As the mainsails unfurled our curses we hurled
On the English and thoughts of tomorrow.
Oh Oh Oh Oh I wish I was back home in Derry.
I cursed them to hell as our bow fought the swell.
Our ship danced like a moth in the firelights.
White horses rode high as the devil passed by
Taking souls to Hades by twilight.
Five weeks out to sea we were now forty-three
Our comrades we buried each morning.
In our own slime we were lost in a time.
Endless night without dawning.
Van Diemans land is a hell for a man
To live out his life in slavery.
When the climate is raw and the gun makes the law.
Neither wind nor rain cares for bravery.
Twenty years have gone by and Ive ended me bond
And comrades ghosts are behind me.
A rebel I came and III die the same.
On the cold winds of night you will find me
On the banks of the roses, my love and I sat down
And I took out my violin to play my love a tune
In the middle of the tune, O she sighed and she said
O Johnny, lovely Johnny, Would you leave me
O when I was a young man, I heard my father say
That hed rather see me dead and buried in the clay
Sooner than be married to any runaway
By the lovely sweet banks of the roses
O then I am no runaway and soon Ill let them know
I can take a good glass or leave it alone
And the man that doesnt like me, he can keep
his daughter home
And young Johnny will go roving with another
And if ever I get married, twill be in the month of May
When the leaves they are green and the meadows
they are gay
And I and my true love can sit and sport and play
On the lovely sweet banks of the roses
But Black is the colour of my true loves hair.
His face is like some rosy fair,
The prettiest face and the neatest hands,
I love the ground whereon he stands.
I love my love and well he knows
I love the ground whereon he goes
If you no more on earth I see,
I cant serve you as you have me.
The winters passed and the leaves are green
The time is passed that we have seen,
But still I hope the time will come
When you and I shall be as one.
I go to the Clyde for to mourn and weep,
But satisfied I never could sleep,
Ill write to you a few short lines
Ill suffer death ten thousand times.
So fare you well, my own true love
The time has passed, but I wish you well.
When you and I will be as one.
I love the ground whereon he goes,
The prettiest face, the neatest hands
Her eyes they shone like the diamonds
Youd think she was queen of the land
And her hair hung over her shoulder
Tied up with a black velvet band.
In a neat little town they call Belfast
Apprenticed to trade I was bound
And many an hours sweet happiness
I spent in that neat little town.
Till bad misfortune came oer me
That caused me to stray from the land
Far away from my friends and relations
To follow the black velvet band.
Well, I was out strolling one evening
Not meaning to go very far
When I met with a pretty young damsel
Who was selling her trade in the bar.
When I watched, she took from a customer
And slipped it right into my hand
Then the Watch came and put me in prison
Bad luck to the black velvet band.
Next morning before judge and jury
For a trial I had to appear
And the judge, he said, You young fellows...
The case against you is quite clear
And seven long years is your sentence
Youre going to Van Diemans Land
Far away from your friends and relations
So come all you jolly young fellows
Id have you take warning by me
Whenever youre out on the liquor, me lads,
Beware of the pretty colleen.
Shell fill you with whiskey and porter
Until youre not able to stand
And the very next thing that youll know, me lads,
Youre landed in Van Diemans Land.
Heres a health to you, bonnie Kellswater
For its there youll find the pleasures of life
And its there youll find a fishing and farming
And a bonnie wee girl for your wife
On the hills and the glens and the valleys
Grows the softest of women so fine
And the flowers are all dripping with honey
There lives Martha, a true love of mine
Bonnie Martha, youre the first girl I courted
Youre the one put my heart in a snare
And if ever I should lose you to another
I will leave my Kellswater so fair
For this one and that one may court her
But no other can take her from me
For I love her as I love my Kellswater
Like the primrose is loved by the bee
Oh Bridgit OMalley, you left my heart shaken
With a hopeless desolation, Id have you to know
Its the wonders of admiration your quiet face has taken
And your beauty will haunt me wherever I go.
The white moon above the pale sands, the pale stars above the thorn tree
Are cold beside my darling, but no purer than she
I gaze upon the cold moon till the stars drown in the warm sea
And the bright eyes of my darling are never on me.
My Sunday it is weary, my Sunday it is grey now
My heart is a cold thing, my heart is a stone
All joy is dead within me, my life has gone away now
For another has taken my love for his own.
The day it is approaching when we were to be married
And its rather I would die than live only to grieve
Oh meet me, my Darling, eer the sun sets oer the barley
And Ill meet you there on the road to Drumslieve.
Oh Bridgit OMalley, youve left my heart shaken
I wish I was in Carrigfergus
Only for nights in Ballygrant
I would swim over the deepest ocean
For my love to find
But the sea is wide and I cannot cross over
And neither have I the wings to fly
I wish I could meet a handsome boatsman
To ferry me over, to my love and die.
My childhood days bring back sad reflections
Of happy times I spent so long ago
My boyhood friends and my own relations
Have all passed on now like melting snow.
But Ill spend my days in endless roaming
Soft is the grass, my bed is free.
Ah, to be back now in Carrigfergus
On that long road down to the sea.
But in Kilkenny, it is reported
On marble stones there as black as ink
With gold and silver I would support her
But Ill sing no more till I get a drink.
For Im drunk today, and Im seldom sober
A handsome rover from town to town
Ah, but Im sick now, my days are numbered
You may travel far far from your own native land
Far away oer the mountains, far away oer the foam
But of all the fine places that Ive ever been
Sure theres none can compare with the cliffs of Doneen.
Take a view oer the mountains, fine sights youll see there
Youll see the high rocky mountains oer the west coast of Clare
Oh the town of Kilkee and Kilrush can be seen
From the high rocky slopes round the cliffs of Doneen.
Its a nice place to be on a fine summers day
Watching all the wild flowers that neer do decay
Oh the hares and lofty pheasants are plain to be seen
Making homes for their young round the cliffs of Doneen.
Fare thee well to Doneen, fare thee well for a while
And to all the kind people Im leaving behind
To the streams and the meadows where late I have been
And the high rocky slopes round the cliffs of Doneen.
In Dublins fair city, where the girls are so pretty
I first set my eyes on sweet Molly Malone
As she wheeled her wheel-barrow
Through streets broad and narrow
Crying cockles and mussels, alive, alive-O!
Alive, alive-O! alive, alive-O!
She was a fish-monger, but sure twas no wonder
For so were her father and mother before
And they each wheeled their barrow
She died of a fever, and no one could save her
And that was the end of sweet Molly Malone
But her ghost wheels her barrow
The Garden of Eden has vanished, they say
But I know the lie of it still;
Just turn to the left at the bridge of Finea
And stop when halfway to Cootehill.
Tis there I will find it,
I know sure enough
When fortune has come to me call,
Oh the grass it is green around Ballyjamesduff
And the blue sky is over it all.
And tones that are tender and tones that are gruff
Are whispering over the sea,
Come back, Paddy Reilly to Ballyjamesduff
Come home, Paddy Reilly, to me.
My mother once told me that when I was born
The day that I first saw the light,
I looked down the street on that very first morn
And gave a great crow of delight.
Now most newborn babies appear in a huff,
And start with a sorrowful squall,
But I knew I was born in Ballyjamesduff
And thats why I smiled on them all.
The babys a man, now hes toil-worn and tough
Still, whispers come over the sea,
The night that we danced by the light of the moon,
Wid Phil to the fore wid his flute,
When Phil threw his lip over Come Again Soon,
Hes dance the foot out o yer boot!
The day that I took long Magee by the scruff
For slanderin Rosie Kilrain,
Then, marchin him straight out of Ballyjamesduff,
Assisted him into a drain.
Oh, sweet are the dreams, as the dudeen I puff,
Of whisperings over the sea,
Ive loved the young women of every land,
That always came easy to me;
Just barrin the belles of the Black-a-moor brand
And the chocolate shapes of Feegee.
But that sort of love is a moonshiny stuff,
And never will addle me brain,
For the bells will be ringin in Ballyjamesduff
For me and me Rosie Kilrain!
And through all their glamour, their gas and their guff
A whisper comes over the sea,
Ive struck oil at last!
Ive struck work, and I vow
Ive struck some remarkable clothes,
Ive struck a policeman for sayin that now,
Id go back to my beautiful Rose.
The belles they may blarney,
the boys they may bluff
But this I will always maintain,
No place in the world like Ballyjamesduff
No guril (sic) like Rosie Kilrain.
Ive paid for my passage, the sea may be rough
But borne on each breeze there will be,
Will you come to the bower oer the free boundless ocean
Where the stupendous waves roll in thundering motion,
Where the mermaids are seen and the fierce tempest gathers,
To loved Erin the green, the dear land of our fathers.
Will you come, will you, will you, will you come to the bower?
Will you come to the land of ONeill and ODonnell
Of Lord Lucan of old and immortal OConnell.
Where Brian drove the Danes and Saint Patrick the vermin
And whose valleys remain still most beautiful and charming?
You can visit Benburb and the storied Blackwater,
Where Owen Roe met Munroe and his Chieftains did slaughter
Where the lambs skip and play on the mossy all over,
From those bright golden views to enchanting Rostrevor.
You can see Dublin city, and the fine groves of Blarney
The Bann, Boyne, and Liffey and the Lakes of Killarney,
You may ride on the tide on the broad majestic Shannon
You may sail round Loch Neagh and see storied Dungannon.
You can visit New Ross, gallant Wexford, and Gorey,
Where the green was last seen by proud Saxon and Tory,
Where the soil is sanctified by the blood of each true man
Where they died satisfied that their enemies they would not run from.
Will you come and awake our lost land from its slumber
And her fetters well break, links that long are encumbered.
And the air will resound with hosannahs to greet you
On the shore will be found gallant Irishmen to greet you.
Oh Danny boy, the pipes, the pipes are calling
From glen to glen, and down the mountain side
The summers gone, and all the flowers are dying
Tis you, tis you must go and I must bide.
But come ye back when summers in the meadow
Or when the valleys hushed and white with snow
Tis Ill be here in sunshine or in shadow
Oh Danny boy, oh Danny boy, I love you so.
And if you come, when all the flowers are dying
And I am dead, as dead I well may be
Youll come and find the place where I am lying
And kneel and say an Ave there for me.
And I shall hear, tho soft you tread above me
And all my dreams will warm and sweeter be
If youll not fail to tell me that you love me
Ill simply sleep in peace until you come to me.
I found my love by the gasworks croft
Dreamed a dream by the old canal
Kissed my girl by the factory wall
Dirty old town, dirty old town.
Clouds are drifting across the moon
Cats are prowling on their beat
Springs a girl in the street at night
I heard a siren from the docks
Saw a train set the night on fire
Smelled the spring in the smokey wind
Im going to make a good sharp axe
Shining steel tempered in the fire
Well chop you down like an old dead tree
t was down by the Salley Gardens, my love and I did meet.
She crossed the Salley Gardens with little snow-white feet.
She bid me take love easy, as the leaves grow on the tree,
But I was young and foolish, and with her did not agree.
In a field down by the river, my love and I did stand
And on my leaning shoulder, she laid her snow-white hand.
She bid me take life easy , as the grass grows on the weirs
But I was young and foolish, and now am full of tears.
Down by the Salley Gardens, my love and I did meet.
When, like the dawning day
Eileen Aroon
Love sends his early ray
Eileen Aroon.
What makes his dawning glow
Changeless through joy and woe
Only the constant know
Were she no longer true
What would her lover do
Fly with a broken chain
Far oer the bounding main
Never to love again
Youth must in time decay
Beauty must fade away
Castles are sacked in war
Chieftains are scattered far
Truth is a fixed star
Believe me, if all those endearing young charms
Which I gaze on so fondly today
Were to change by tomorrow and fleet in my arms
Like fairy gifts fading away.
Thou wouldst still be adored as this moment thou art
Let thy loveliness fade as it will
And around the dear ruin each wish of my heart
Would entwine itself verdantly still.
It is not while beauty and youth are thine own
And thy cheeks unprofaned by a tear
That the fervor and faith of a soul can be known
To which time will but make thee more dear.
No, the heart that has truly loved never forgets
But as truly loves on to the close
As the sunflower turns to her God when he sets
The same look which she turned when she rose.
Ill tell you a story of a row in the town,
When the green flag went up and the Crown rag came down,
Twas the neatest and sweetest thing ever you saw,
And they played the best games played in Erin Go Bragh.
One of our comrades was down at Rings end,
For the honor of Ireland to hold and defend,
He had no veteran soldiers but volunteers raw,
Playing sweet Mauser music for Erin Go Bragh.
Now heres to Pat Pearse and our comrades who died
Tom Clark, MacDonagh, MacDiarmada, McBryde,
And heres to James Connolly who gave one hurrah,
And placed the machine guns for Erin Go Bragh.
One brave English captain was ranting that day,
Saying, Give me one hour and Ill blow you away,
But a big Mauser bullet got stuck in his craw,
And he died of lead poisoning in Erin Go Bragh.
Old Ceannt and his comrades like lions at bay,
From the South Dublin Union poured death and dismay,
And what was their horror when the Englishmen saw
All the dead khaki soldiers in Erin Go Bragh.
Now heres to old Dublin, and heres her renown,
In the long generation her fame will go down,
And our children will tell how their forefathers saw,
The red blaze of freedom in Erin Go Bragh.
Of priests we can offer a charmin variety,
Far renownd for learnin and piety;
Still, Id advance ye widout impropriety,
Father OFlynn as the flowr of them all.
cho: Heres a health to you, Father OFlynn,
Slainte and slainte and slainte agin;
Powrfulest preacher, and tenderest teacher,
And kindliest creature in ould Donegal.
Dont talk of your Provost and Fellows of Trinity,
Famous forever at Greek and Latinity,
Dad and the divils and all at Divinity
Father OFlynn d make hares of them all!
Come, I venture to give ye my word,
Never the likes of his logic was heard,
Down from mythology into thayology,
Truth! and conchology if hed the call.
Och Father OFlynn, youve a wonderful way wid you,
All ould sinners are wishful to pray wid you,
All the young childer are wild for to play wid you,
Youve such a way wid you, Father avick.